>> CNN's Becky Anderson in Doha
are, Qatar, we appreciate it.
Senior adviser to Israeli prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu,
and ambassador to the united
Kingdom, mark Greg is with us
in tel aviv.
First, let me ask you, military
people in Israel not just the
United States have their own
language.
When the idf says that military
ground excursion has expanded,
ground operations expanded, I
didn't know, what does this
mean that ground operation is
expanding.
Doesn't mean Israeli troops,
soldiers on the ground in gaza?
?
>> I'm not gonna go into
anything operational especially
if the operation is ongoing.
But I can say that, yes, we're
beefing up the pressure on
hamas.
That pressure increase and
continue to increase until we
achieve our goal.
>> Is there are a ground,
ground operations expanded does
that mean it's happening it's
what it sounds like to me again
I don't speak military lingo
whether it's in the Pentagon,
idf what is it mean?
>> I said a moment ago
operations are ongoing.
>> I still don't know that
means.
>> What about this barrage of
airstrikes going on in gaza
right now.
>> I cannot go into anything
technical, I can say this we
are focused on our goal which
is the elimination of hamas,
the destruction of its military
capabilities, military machine,
and the end of its political
control over the gaza strip.
>> The idf released earlier
toy, a 3D map of command and
control center of hamas, the
idf says it's under a hospital
in gaza.
It's not photographs, it's a
graphic depiction, where does
it where it is that information
come from?
>> That information is enclave,
based on Israeli intelligence.
If you ask the gazans who are
honest with you, they'll tell
you for years they've known
that how mask uses hospitals,
in this case a sherpa hospital
for their command and control.
The idf spokesperson and people
in gaza must have seen it, when
the war started on the 7th of
October with that massacre,
they expected Israel to strike
back.
There was a surge of hamas
activists, terrorists, scores
of them finding shelter.
>> So, obviously, it's been
known and it's been reported,
Anderson's been to gaza, it's
known that hamas fires rockets
from civilian centers from
apartments, et cetera --
>> From schools, U.N.
Facilities.
>> It's been reported, it's not
just idf claiming it but it's
been reported by independent
journalist on the ground.
This is real consider hospitals
to be targets, there are also
as you will acknowledge,
patients, doctors, nurses in
these hospitals.
>> We were pointing out the
facts, we want the world to
understand the enemy that we're
up against.
A ruthless enemy that has been
reported widely, has no trouble
massacring Israeli civilians,
they did so in all the gruesome
reality that we saw on October
seven.
They have no qualms whatsoever
about impending themselves and
humanitarian buildings like
hospitals.
Which it shows us exactly what
we're up against.
When this is over and we have
defeated hamas, we've destroyed
it's military machine, we've
removed it from the position of
power it holds in gaza today.
I think not only we doing
Israelis of flavored freeing
these terrorists from the south,
or doing the people of gaza
favor, or freeing them from
this extremist dictatorship run
by a bunch of cutthroat
terrorists.
>> Who takes over in gaza when
and if you defeat hamas?
Who takes over?
>> We will defeat hamas, will
eliminate them.
>> Who takes over?
>> We have contingency plans.
We're looking at different
scenarios, we've been
discussing them with friends
and allies, like Washington, at
this stage I cannot go into
details.
The focus at the moment is
defeating hamas.
And anything is superior,
preferable to continue hamas
ruling in gaza.
We've seen what it brings, it
brings them a spare we saw on
Israel and October seven.
We don't want to go back there.
>> Senior hamas official says
hamas is ready to --
defeat troops if they enter
gaza.
He went on to say, quote, the
resistance is ready.
What I laid out what your
soldiers are gonna be facing in
gaza, it's it is, the
challenges this vast network of
200 kilometers of tunnels that
they've been building for 20
years.
It's very sophisticated, the
defense minister said to me
earlier today, all the money
going to gaza over the years
not to build university, not to
build factories, to build
tunnels and by rockets.
A ruthless terrorist group
Wellington blow themselves up
and do anything, use their own
people as a human camouflage,
urban where fair or the
toughest warfare there is, 2
million civilians you do not
want to Cal, you don't want to
hurt them, you're unfortunately
killing them.
But you do not want to.
We're making an effort not to
like your killing a lot of
them.
This is a task, it's seeming
impossible and you are sending
soldiers and duet.
>> Obviously, --
>> On top of a humanitarian
crisis ongoing.
>> First of all, the entire
situation wherein is precisely
because hamas attacked us on
October 7th, were responding to
hamas.
I have no doubt that we're
going to battle facing risks,
you're 100 percent correct.
The enemy is horrific and it's
barbarity, it's fanaticism, and
it's disregard rules of war,
that's clear.
The young soldiers going, you
need to do this why, the
current status quo, this
terrorist I.S.I.S. Enclave in
our southern border is
unsustainable.
We will not live like that any
longer.
We saw what they are capable of
doing.
We saw a gruesome, terrible
horrific violence.
We refuse to live with that
neighbor anymore.
We are now going to a redo